the US has given the green light to a
series of strikes on Iranian Targets in
Syria and Iraq after a drone attack
killed three US soldiers in Jordan near
the Syrian border on Sunday the attack
injured 41 other US troops at this
military base known as Tower 22 the US
defense secretary Lloyd Austin said the
United States would not tolerate attacks
on American troops this is a dangerous
moment in the Middle East we will
continue to work to avoid a wider
conflict in a region but we will take
all necessary actions to defend the
United States our interest and our
people and we will
respond when we
choose where we choose and how we
choose our North America editor Sarah
Smith joins us now and what more do we
know about that
response well we know that plans have
been approved approved for a series of
strikes over a number of days so this
action will take a while uh targeting
Iranian personnel and Facilities but not
inside Iran in Iraq and in Syria that's
where the uh Iranian backed militia
who've been attacking US forces have
been operating from that's where uh they
were operating from when they killed
three US soldiers at the weekend and
that distinction is very very important
because if America was actually to
strike targets inside Iran itself that
would risk dangerously escalating
tensions in the region and this is the
the really delicate balance America is
trying to come up with they need
decisive retaliation that is dramatic
enough they hope to deter further
attacks on their forces but at the same
time they don't want to do anything that
could cause the conflict to spread
that's the very thing they've been
trying to avoid happening and Sarah in
another development we've learned
tonight that President Biden is taking
action against the number of Israeli
settlers who've been accused of
attacking Palestinians in the the
occupied West
Bank yeah this is really unusual he's
signed an executive order so that means
the president can do this all by himself
to impose sanctions on just four for now
um Israeli settlers and there has been
an an uptaking violence some of it
deadly against Palestinians in the West
Bank America has been growing
increasingly frustrated by that so they
are applying now the same sanctions
against some Israeli settlers that they
apply to terrorist organizations and
that has clearly infuriated the Israeli
government who say they're the ones who
will take action against law Breakers in
their country and that these unusual
measures are completely unnecessary and
I think this gives us a glimpse of uh
something wider and important that has
been going on and that is America and
President Biden himself's frustrations
with the Israeli government they're
having constant conversations not just
about this but about the conduct of the
war in Gaza they're having disagreements
and they feel that Benjamin Netanyahu
the Israeli Prime Minister is not
listening to them um not doing what they
ask and this I think just shows us a
rare sight in public of what is an
increasing riff between America and
Israel